Yeah, I can do if you want.
Okay, so today is April the 5th, 2023.
Yes.
And this is part of StatPoll's oral history project.
Joining me today, so I'm Julian Rollins, the tutor at StatPoll.
I've got a couple of students here.
So Richard is joining me, Richard Burns joining me with the questions.
And our interviewee for today is Hannah.
Hi.
Hannah Marshall.
Yeah.
Who lives in StatPoll and also comes here and works with us here at StatPoll Allgarden.
So I think my first question for you Hannah is how long have you lived in StatPoll?
All my life.
Yeah.
Yeah, literally all my life.
So you were born here.
Yeah, I was born here.
Yeah, I was born in Stackpole.
So what's your earliest memory of StatPoll Allgarden then?
My earliest memory?
It must be about seven years ago where me and my mum and my stepdad would come down
here for a cup of coffee and tea and just have a walk around the all gardens and then
the woods.
So we're a bit away from the village here, aren't we?
How long does it take you to walk into the village?
To walk from here to the village it will take me about 30 minutes.
Yeah.
So it's about three mile.
Is it?
Yeah, so we're quite separated from the village but it's kind of somewhere that you could
come and, you've got a dog, haven't you?
Walk the dog.
He can't do any more runs like that, I used to.
So when you used to come here then, you'd come and walk around, you'd go to the cafe
and stuff.
Yeah.
How come you then ended up coming here to help with the gardening then?
I guess it's always something I've always been interested in, gardening.
But like I'd just finished college and I didn't know what to do and mum said why don't you
go down the wall gardens for a bit and have a do it there.
So it's your mum's idea.
Yeah.
So volunteering then and doing a bit of college work as well.
So how old were you then?
I must have been 16, 18, around that.
Okay.
Yeah.
So how old are you now?
24.
So a few years.
Yeah.
And has much changed then during the time you've been here?
Oh, a lot has changed.
A lot.
I mean all the plots used to be with a fish pond whiz and then yeah, everything's just
changed.
So you're growing, you're doing gardening as part of the team that look after the whole
place.
Yeah.
And then you're also growing stuff on individual plots.
What do you grow on your plots?
I've got spinach in, I've got lavender, I've got two roses and then sometimes I grow carrots,
leeks, onions and maybe beetroot this year.
Lots of different things.
Yeah.
So when you first came here then Hannah, what were your kind of, what was your level of
gardening knowledge, gardening understanding then?
Had you done a bit before?
Yeah, I did.
I potted around in the garden at home and I had quite a big understanding of what gardening
was and what to do.
But yeah, it's grown since then.
You've learned more.
Yeah.
What do you think you get from gardening then?
Just exercise, new knowledge again and just new knowledge really.
And just meeting new people and friends, making friends.
So there's quite a, yeah, it's quite a sociable thing here, isn't it?
Yeah.
Richard, she wants a few questions.
Right, I've got a question for you, Hannah.
Yeah.
I suppose the question is, what is your favourite part about Datspo Gardens altogether?
I think it's just being out and making friends and just having a social and obviously the
gardening as well.
I really enjoy that.
Sounds really good.
Okay, do you have a particular favourite time of year at all?
I think my favourite time of year is autumn because it's not too hot and it's not too
cold.
I hate the heat.
Yeah, I actually agree with that statement.
Is there a favourite job like doing in the gardens?
I quite like pruning.
Pruning the fruit bushes and anything physical.
I love doing like digging.
I'll do anything that needs heavy needs moving, I'll do it.
Fair enough.
Well, say for example, well like today obviously it's raining isn't it?
Yeah.
So do you have a particular favourite job that you like to do inside?
I quite like sanding or potting on.
I really enjoy them too.
So you mentioned sanding for the benefit of the recording then.
There's a bit of woodwork goes on on rainy days in one of the polytunnels isn't there?
What are you making?
Bird boxes and bird feeders I think are the main ones and bug boxes.
So it's all gardening related stuff and then it's sold in the shop isn't it?
Yeah.
So you mentioned that it's a sociable thing that you've got a group of people that you work with,
which is nice isn't it?
It's quite a tight-knit group.
Yeah.
You've also got visitors coming in through the summer, get more of them during the summer.
How do you feel about that?
Do you have much interaction?
Sometimes they'll come up and ask about the yacchiums, the really tall dinosaur plants as I call them.
I sometimes talk to them if they're asking what I'm up to and how am I coping with the heat and everything.
So it gives them a bit of an extra, more information about the place doesn't it?
Yeah.
And sometimes I'll get asked directions as well.
It's like where's the lily pond?
About an hour maybe, a couple of minute walk.
Or the other one is where's the big country house?
Oh, yeah that's the main one.
So what about your neighbours and stuff then? Is this somewhere that they use much?
I think they do. During the summer I do see some of them come down here in the summer and have a walk around.
So somewhere just for a bit of a walk?
Yeah.
Little kids, dogs, that sort of thing?
Yeah, mainly dogs.
And of course we've got the woods just over there as well so it's quite a good place to park.
I think the fact that we don't charge for parking helps as well.
Yeah, it does help.
So Richard asked you about the favourite job.
I was thinking, can you sort of talk us through like a normal day?
What time you get here? What do you do first?
I get here about 10 maybe, depending if we're running a bit late or whatever.
And then we'll have a little morning break and then if it's nice out we'll go outside,
either do some hoeing, some weeding on our veg pots in the summer or even watering or whatever we need to do.
And if it's raining we'll either go in the top polytunnel and do some woodworking there,
like making bug boxes and sanding and painting or we'll go in the greenhouse and put on some plants.
It's nice in those polytunnels on a rainy day in the winter.
Yeah.
Yeah, it almost feels like the summer.
So we did ask you about what benefits you think you get from it.
So it's about being outside and getting fresh air and exercise.
Yeah.
But it's also about being part of a sort of a team, isn't it?
Do you prefer, so people are very much given the chance to sort of choose their way of working,
do you prefer to be like part of a little team doing weeding or would you rather be off doing something on your own and then come together?
It depends what the job is. If it's something that I can do on my own, I'll do it on my own.
But if I like, if I want to do a team job, I'll go on a team job and do it with people.
Just depends.
And the veg you grow then, we've spoken about this in the college work recently, haven't we?
Yeah.
So I'm going to ask you the same question again. What of the stuff that you grow then, what do you do with it?
I will take it home and mum will either cook it or make some like food out of, make a meal out of it or whatnot.
Is that important to you, the fact that there's like a product from the gardening or would you be happy just to do like flowers and stuff?
I don't mind doing both. I like, I quite like the both side. I like my flowers more as well as the veg.
Yeah. So if we did away, you know, if they did away with the veg growing altogether and just said the job is to keep the place looking good, you'd be happy?
I'd be quite happy, yeah.
Which is, I mean, as you go around, you mentioned the ecuums.
Yeah.
As you go around, which is the bit, is there a corner that you particularly like?
Over in, I do like the sensory garden because in the summer it's really shaded.
Is that over by the crockery?
Yeah. And up past the gravel circle, it's really shaded by there so it's nice and quite cool.
Have you got any other questions? You've covered quite a lot of country, haven't you?
I can't think about any.
I was tempted to ask, although it's a bit like it because it's my little part of the world, to ask about the college work.
So you do, all the time you've been here, you've been doing some sort of college courses.
Yeah. Yeah.
How do you find that?
I quite enjoy them actually. It's just like learning something new.
Like I think the other last year, I think we made clay pots and I've never ever worked with clay before.
So it's just little bits like that I like learning about.
It adds a bit of variety to the day, doesn't it?
Yeah. It breaks it up a bit.
Great. Is there anything else you think that we haven't asked you about?
I don't think so.
You want to tell posterity, you want to tell people in the future, straight forward a hundred years.
Oh God, I can't literally think of anything.
Great. Thanks for your time.
You're welcome.
It's been really useful.